# CustomHashable

`CustomHashable` is a Swift macro that makes it easy to add `Hashable` conformance to a type. It is particularly useful when synthesised conformance is not possible, such as with classes or a struct with 1 or more non-hashable properties.

The `CustomHashable` macro is applied to the type that will conform to `Hashable` and the `HashableKey` macro is applied to each of the properties that should contribute to the `Hashable` conformance.

```swift
/// A struct that uses the ``stringProperty`` and ``intProperty`` for the `Hashable` conformance.
@CustomHashable
struct MyStruct {
    // Any property that is hashable is supported.
    @HashableKey
    let stringProperty: String

    // Works on private properties, too.
    @HashableKey
    private let intProperty: Int

    // Non-decorated properties are ignored
    let notHashableType: NotHashableType
}
```

All decorated properties are included in both the `==` and `hash(into:)` implementations, ensuring the [contract of `Hashable`](<https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/hashable#:~:text=Two%20instances%20that%20are%20equal%20must%20feed%20the%20same%20values%20to%20Hasher%20in%20hash(into%3A)%2C%20in%20the%20same%20order.>) is upheld:

> Two instances that are equal must feed the same values to Hasher in hash(into:), in the same order.

## FAQ

**Q: How ready is this?**

This is past the proof-of-concept phase, but since official support for macros is not available this is still an alpha.

**Q: What if I add `@HashableKey` to a non-hashable type?**

**A:** This will produce a compile-time error, although it will appear in the code generated by the macro. I am not aware of a (fast) way to check if a property that a macro is applied to conforms to a protocol, which would allow the error to be improved. If you know how please let me know!

**Q: Where can I find more about macros?**

**A:** [Swift Macros Dashboard](https://gist.github.com/DougGregor/de840fcf6d6f307792121eee11c0da85). Also my other macro: [Renamed](https://github.com/JosephDuffy/Renamed).

## Installation

To use macros you need to use a recent Swift toolchain. Because Xcode does not support building a package with a toolchain development is being done in Visual Studio Code. Check the [settings.json](./.vscode/settings.json) file to see which snapshot the project is being developed against.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
